# Project Euler

### [Free code camp](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/project-euler/)

## About

<div align="center">

Project Euler is a website that hosts a collection of challenging computational and mathematical problems. The project was created by Colin Hughes in 2001 and named after the famous mathematician Leonhard Euler.

The problems on Project Euler range in difficulty from relatively easy to extremely difficult, and require a combination of mathematical insight and programming skill to solve. Many of the problems involve finding patterns or mathematical properties of numbers, while others require creative algorithms or complex computations.

Project Euler is popular among mathematicians, computer scientists, and hobbyists who enjoy solving challenging problems. The website also provides a forum where users can discuss solutions and techniques for solving the problems.

</div>

> Complete the programming challenges below, from the massive Project Euler archives. These will harden your algorithm and mathematics knowledge.

> These problems range in difficulty and, for many, the experience is inductive chain learning. That is, by solving one problem, it will expose you to a new concept that allows you to undertake a previously inaccessible problem. Can you finish them all?

## List

1. [Problem 1: Multiples of 3 and 5](#problem-1-multiples-of-3-and-5) - **_[SOLUTION](/tasks/1_multiplesOf3and5.js)_**
2. [Problem 2: Even Fibonacci Numbers](#problem-2-even-fibonacci-numbers) - **_[SOLUTION](tasks/2_fiboEvenSum.js)_**
3. [Problem 3: Largest prime factor](#problem-3-largest-prime-factor) - **_[SOLUTION](tasks/3_largestPrimeFactor.js)_**
4. [Problem 4: Largest palindrome product](#problem-4-largest-palindrome-product) - **_[SOLUTION](tasks/4_largestPalindromeProduct.js)_**
5. [Problem 5: Smallest multiple](#problem-5-smallest-multiple) - **_[SOLUTION](tasks/5_smallestMultiple.js)_**

## Problem 1: Multiples of 3 and 5

If we list all the natural numbers below 10 that are multiples of **3** or **5**, we get **3, 5, 6** and **9**. The sum of these multiples is `23`.

Find the sum of all the multiples of 3 or 5 below the provided parameter value number.

### Output examples

```javascript
multiplesOf3and5(10); //23
multiplesOf3and5(100); //2318
multiplesOf3and5(1000); //233168
```

## Problem 2: Even Fibonacci Numbers

Each new term in the Fibonacci sequence is generated by adding the previous two terms. By starting with 1 and 2, the first 10 terms will be:

`1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13, 21, 34, 55, 89, ...`

By considering the terms in the Fibonacci sequence whose values do not exceed n, find the sum of the even-valued terms.

### Output examples

```javascript
fiboEvenSum(10); // 10.
fiboEvenSum(34); // 44.
fiboEvenSum(60); // 44.
fiboEvenSum(1000); // 798.
fiboEvenSum(100000); // 60696.
fiboEvenSum(4000000); // 4613732.
```

## Problem 3: Largest prime factor

The prime factors of `13195` are `5, 7, 13` and `29`.

What is the largest prime factor of the given number?

### Output examples

```javascript
largestPrimeFactor(2); // a number.
largestPrimeFactor(2); // 2.
largestPrimeFactor(3); // 3.
largestPrimeFactor(5); // 5.
largestPrimeFactor(7); // 7.
largestPrimeFactor(8); // 2.
largestPrimeFactor(13195); // 29.
largestPrimeFactor(600851475143); // 6857.
```

## Problem 4: Largest palindrome product

A palindromic number reads the same both ways. The largest palindrome made from the product of two 2-digit numbers is `9009 = 91 × 99`

Find the largest palindrome made from the product of two n-digit numbers.

### Output examples

```javascript
largestPalindromeProduct(2); // a number.
largestPalindromeProduct(2); // 9009.
largestPalindromeProduct(3); // 906609.
```

## Problem 5: Smallest multiple

2520 is the smallest number that can be divided by each of the numbers from 1 to 10 without any remainder.

What is the smallest positive number that is evenly divisible by all of the numbers from `1 to n`?

### Output examples

```javascript
smallestMult(5); // number.
smallestMult(5); //60.
smallestMult(7); //420.
smallestMult(10); // 2520.
smallestMult(13); // 360360.
smallestMult(20); // 232792560.
```
